In this demo,
we'll be creating a transactional method by making use
of the @Transactional annotation.
We'll then verify that the method works by stepping through the
code and also triggering transaction rollback.
Okay, let's get started by creating a new test.
We'll call it TransactionalTests.
Just like in the previous module, we'll run it with the SpringRunner,
but this time make it a Spring Boot test as we'll be
creating some extra non-JPA related beans.
We can then wire in our FlightRepository and then create a new setUp method,
which deletes everything from our table at the start of the test.
Now let's create a test called shouldNotRollBackWhenTheresNoTransaction.
The goal of this test will be to compare it against a
transactional test to prove that with transactions,
we are able to roll back in the event of an exception.
Okay,
let's create a package called Service and create a class called FlightsService.
In our new class, we'll create a method,
which saves a flight and then throws an exception.
In a real application, in between,
we might have some extra code that would do some more
reads and writes to the database.
Let's switch back to our test and wire in our
FlightsService and then call our saveFlight method.
As is an exception thrown,
we can then surround the call with a try-catch block
and then in the finally block, assert that a FlightRepository is not empty.
It's pretty obvious this should be the case as we throw
our exception after saving the flight.
Let's run our test and verify it.
Yes, it has gone green.
Now we can move on to a more interesting test,
which makes use of the @Transactional annotation.
Let's copy and paste our existing one and rename it
shouldNotRollBackWhenThereIsATransaction.
Then let's change our assertion to check that our flights are empty.
We'll then call a new method, saveFlightTransactional instead.
It will be exactly the same as before, only annotated with @Transactional.
What this means is on invoking the method,
the transaction will start and then will be committed
once the method completes successfully.
As we throw an exception rather than allowing the method to complete,
our transaction should never be successfully committed so the
flight will not end up in the database.
Okay, let's switch back to our test, run it,
and confirm that the flight was not saved.
Great, it wasn't,
meaning that Spring successfully executed our code within a transaction when
all we needed to do was use the @Transactional annotation.
This proves how much easier things can be when we use Spring to reduce our boilerplate.